---
layout: post
title:  "RYL890 LoRa Module Driver"
post-title:  "RYL890 LoRa Module Driver"
date:   2021-09-26 21:41:46 -0500
permalink: /projects/ryl890_driver.html
permalink_name: /ryl890_driver
category: projects
description: "This is a basic UART based driver for the RYL890 LoRa module"

categories: Projects
---

---
# Overview

---
I've recently been playing around with a couple of Real Time Operating Systems(RTOS) to get a grasp on what's available. Zephyr RTOS seems to be a promising tool for IOT devices, so I decided to write a driver for these LoRa modules I picked up that will work with Zephyr.

This module handles a lot of the stuff I'd typically need to handle, so I suppose you could view this project as an intro to Zephyr, and driver development if you're interested in learning.

The first thing you'll realize about this [module](https://reyax.com/products/rylr896/) is your dealing with Chinese documentation that is far from consistent. Zephyr's documentation on the other hand is great.

---
# Zephyr Basics

---
[Zephyr](https://www.zephyrproject.org/) is an RTOS as I said above. The main difference between an RTOS and a standard OS is the ability for the system to respond at the exact times you expect in a predictable manner. Zephyr is a rather high level RTOS in the sense it implements everything from a scheduler, all the way up to a full network stack if you want it to. 

Zephyr abstracts away the basic level of your individual processor and board and relies on DeviceTree to set up your hardware configuration, and KConfig to handle your software configuration. The getting started guide on their site will set you on the right path.

---
# Getting Started

---
The first thing I had to deal with was figuring out how the device tree works and how I get access to my UART. After finding my board in their directory you can see the device tree config. Scrolling through you can find your UART pinouts, and what UART they automatically bind to the shell for the system

# Wrapping Up
This write-up by no means goes into depth on any of these things. This is a high-level overview and you're meant to download the repo and look at it yourself to get a better understanding.

What I do want you to understand is that you need a build system, you need some level of documentation, and if you're making a substantial project, you need testing.

The more you invest at startup, the less painful it will be to have to implement this stuff down the road. Best of luck with your projects :)